Aside from the major cities, other communities are either too tiny (fishing villages, barbarian strongholds in the hills, or small farming settlements) or too transitory (smugglers' strongholds, pirate hideouts, pirate cities, and floating cities made of temporarily lashed-together pirate ships) to be jotted on a map. The Pirate Isles on the eastern edge of the Dragon Coast are thick with freebooters of all stripes, ranging from evil marauders who leave no victim unscarred to swashbucklers who wage personal wars against Thayan or Zhent shipping.

Cedarspoke (Small City, 6,080):
This quiet, independent city lies in the heart of the Gulthmere Forest and is more often associated with the Vilhon Reach than the Dragon Coast. The Cedar River flows through the city and splits it in two. The city's inhabitants arc druids or people seeking a simple, natural life. The druids of Cedarspoke are not part of the Emerald Enclave (see the Vilhon Reach below and Chapter 7: Organizations for more information), but they seldom oppose the Enclave's activities. The city's most notable landmark is Earthome College, a seat of druidic learning, and a repository for perhaps the best collection of historical documents relating to the Vilhon Reach. Zalaznar Crinios (N male human Drd17 of Silvanus) is the undisputed ruler of Cedarspoke, but he is an evenhanded and popular tyrant.
Ruler : Zalaznar Crinios (N male human Drd17 of Silvanus) is the undisputed ruler of Cedarspoke, but he is an evenhanded and popular tyrant.

Elversult (Small City, 9,728):
Elversult is a rich community located south of the Dragonmere at the junction of many trading roads, including the Overmoor Trail and the Trader's Road.
Although Elversult is not a port itself, its warehouses are the branching point for trade north to Cormyr and west to the Sword Coast.
Elversult is the least Dragon Coast-ish city oil the Dragon Coast.
Its present ruler, a former adventurer named Yanseldara (NG female human Ftr11/Sor8) led a brilliant rebellion against the previous necromantic regime. Centuries of smuggling and intrigue cannot be undone in a decade, but those seeking dishonest deals now think twice before taking their business to Yanseldara's city, particularly since she leaves law enforcement to her consort and adventuring companion, Vaerana Hawklyn (CG female human Rgr20 of Mielikki).
That does not mean that assassins, slavers, Banites, and cultists completely avoid Elversult—they simply cloak their movements with magic or operate under the cover of darkness. The Cult of the Dragon in particular has refused to relinquish the city as one of its staging points for operations to the south. Harpers and other adventurers frequently become entangled in thwarting the Cult's assassination schemes, drug running, and poison manufacturing—all of which are means toward their true goal of seeing Faerun ruled by undead dragons.
Ruler : a former adventurer named Yanseldara (NG female human Ftr11/Sor8) led a brilliant rebellion against the previous necromantic regime. She leaves law enforcement to her consort and adventuring companion, Vaerana Hawklyn (CG female human Rgr20 of Mielikki).

Ilipur (Large Town, 2,432) and Pros (Small Town, 1,824):
These small ports serve as the loading and unloading points for Elversult.
Neither town compares with the true ports of Westgate and Teziir, since shipments need to be loaded onto flat barges and poled out to waiting ships or into shore. Each town has its own Council of Burghers and mayor. "You can't smell the fish for the graft," grumble the merchants of Elversult, who have no choice but to pay the burghers what they want. The alternative is to let their cargoes fall completely into the hands of thieves' guilds such as the Purple Masks and Tide Flowers, or bandit-slavers such as the Men of the Basilisk.
Ruler-Ilipur : ???
Ruler-Pros : ???

Proskur (Large City, 13,984):
Proskur lies just outside Cormyr and the Stormhorn Mountains on the Overmoor Trail. Like most Dragon Coast trading cities, Proskur is run by a merchant council.
Unlike other Dragon Coast councils, Proskur's rulers are confessed thieves, former thieves' guild bosses who realized that they could become richer if they became the government instead of always fighting the government. Ironically, Proskur is now known as a fairly honest region, in the sense that its ruling thieves are up front and efficient. Other covert operatives have difficulties evading its authorities, who have done it all before. The long-time leader of the Proskur council is a brilliant swindler named Leonara Obarstal (NG female human Rog12/Gld3).
Ruler : confessed thieves, former thieves' guild bosses who realized that they could become richer if they became the government instead of always fighting the government. The long-time leader of the Proskur council is a brilliant swindler named Leonara Obarstal (NG female human Rog12/Gld3).

Reddansyr (Village, 608):
A small town on the road leading to Starmantle, Reddansyr is known as an information clearing-house for adventurers. One might think that the town's fair-sized temple to Oghma would be responsible for this reputation, but the truth is that Oghma's priests are more tight-lipped than usual. Apparently, they resent the ongoing free information exchange that takes place at the Giant's Folly, a festhall located inside an overturned boat that was hauled inland by a fire giant who wanted to win a bet.
Ruler : ???

Starmantle (Small City, 6,080):
For centuries, Starmantle and Westgate have competed for trade moving across the Sea of Fallen Stars. Despite the cities' efforts to crush each other, neither has fallen. In fact, the competition has helped them both, since their price wars have increased the volume of trade moving through the Dragon Coast. Starmantle is somewhat less corrupt than Westgate, but it is deeply aligned with the pirates of the Isles.
Ruler : ???

Teziir (Small City, 10,944):
Built on the ruins of the previous city of Teziir, this city was founded in 1312 DR by a group of merchants who disapproved of Westgate's wickedness and wanted a port on the Dragonmere they could control themselves. The council of merchants continues to rule, maintaining power mostly because its members reward competent employees and terminate business relationships with those who fail them, Teziir subsidizes construction of temples and shrines to nonevil Faerunian deities, believing that pilgrims, tithes, and occasional divine miracles are good for business. Consequently, the city has more than its share of temples and minor shrines, and clerics of nearly any of the divine powers can be found somewhere here. Teziir is also plagued by a thieves' guild known as the Astorians which has as many as seven hundred members and has been infiltrated by the Night Masks of Westgate.
Ruler : council of merchants.

Westgate (Metropolis 29,184):
Westgate is the major trading city of the southern coast. It wields enough economic clout to make it the third major trading power of the Inner Sea after Sembia and Cormyr.
The "anything goes and everything has a price" reputation of the Dragon Coast is directly attributable to Westgate, whose citizens are not ashamed of its reputation. On the contrary, they pride themselves on Westgate's status as an open city—open to all races, open to all faiths, and open to all coins. Westgate's noble rulers, all descended from rich merchant houses, believe that personal ethics may be fine for private life but have no place in business.
Willingness to cut any deal has helped the city grow into a major economic power, but it has also created an environment in which thieves view their activities as extensions of normal business by other means. A thieves' guild known as the Night Masks controls nearly as much of Westgate as its official rulers do. The Night Mask assassins, extortionists, enforcers, and spies are for sale to any, meaning that the noble houses who ostensibly oppose the thieves' guild frequently are their best clients.
Temples or shrines to evil deities, including Beshaba, Malar, Shar, and Talona, are sometimes "unmentionable" in polite Westgate society, depending on the fashion of the moment, but there's no doubt that they exist. They have as many devotees as the aboveground temples of Ilmater, Gond, Talos, Mask, and Loviatar (a favorite of several of the decadent noble houses).
The newest addition to Westgate's parade of novelties is a gladiatorial enterprise named the Quivering Thumb, which fled from the collapse of Unther to the city whose rulers would pay the best for bloody circuses. The Quivering Thumb's new sandpit arena is popular with nobility, merchants, commoners, and even with slaves, because the Thumb promises freedom and a thousand gold pieces to any slave who can survive a year in the pit. The Thumb is regarded as a "fair-fight" enterprise, in which no side of any given battle is meant to be massacred.
Ruler : noble rulers, all descended from rich merchant houses, believing that personal ethics may be fine for private life but have no place in business.
